{"id": "C01-S01", "chapter": 1, "title": "A hand on the table", "minutes": 3, "kind": "Playable opening", "space": "18 m apartment-to-landing route; one depth connector", "entry": "A dim kitchen. A spoon rattles in a cup although the room looks still. Anja repairs a porcelain wall fitting. Ivo sits at the table; the camera is already in gameplay position. At three seconds, directional input lets him stand and move. His pale collar separates him from the dark dresser.", "action": "At 00:03–00:35, walk to Anja. She offers two taps when close, not on a fixed timer. At 00:35–01:10, Interact slides a light chair 0.8 m out of the doorway: an unthreatened grip lesson. At 01:10–02:00, follow her through the hall and step a 0.2 m threshold. At 02:00–03:00, she checks the landing terminal as the public alarm changes. Optional inspection of the cup adds seconds, not a collectible.", "threat": "No lethal threat. Dust falls while the hand fitting remains motionless. Anja waits naturally at the door if Ivo explores. The alarm builds urgency without forcibly moving him.", "exit": "The apartment is established as a lived-in home, not a generic dungeon. Control has never been removed for an opening movie. Anja leads into the stairwell.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-01 after standing; CP-C01-02 at stairwell entry. A resume before the gesture reoffers it; a resume afterward does not repeat the whole opening.", "assets": "CHR-IVO; CHR-ANJA; KIT-DOMESTIC; PROP-CHAIR; PROP-CUP; ANIM-TAP; AUD-HOME; CAM-HOME", "test": "New users move within 15 seconds and discover Interact without written instructions in at least 4/5 formative sessions; allow a delayed optional glyph after 12 seconds of no progress.", "campaign_start_min": 0, "campaign_end_min": 3}
{"id": "C01-S02", "chapter": 1, "title": "The landing does not fall", "minutes": 3, "kind": "Separation / narrative event", "space": "14 m two-level stairwell; foreground refuge and rear service hatch", "entry": "The lower landing drops a few centimeters. Anja places her hand in a terminal; the descent stops while loose plaster continues falling. Ivo is on the opposite side of the fracture.", "action": "Move across the held landing. Anja points rather than speaks. Once Ivo is on the far safe shelf, two Custodians enter from the lower stairs. They connect a wheeled bypass harness, transfer her load, and take her through a rear hatch. Ivo can retreat into a visible recess, but cannot cross the physically folded stairs back to her. One transport clamp drops the portable brace beside him.", "threat": "The capture is staged, not a stealth fail that the player could have prevented. During the 10-second transfer, Ivo remains movable in a safe foreground area. Do not imply there was a hidden rescue solution.", "exit": "Pick up the brace with Interact. Anja taps twice on the transport rail before the rear door closes. A cable path and wet wheel marks lead downward.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-03 after brace pickup. Store AnjaTransported and BraceOwned together; never reload with the brace missing and the door closed.", "assets": "PROP-TRANSPORT-RIG; SYS-HANDOFF; ANIM-ANJA-TRANSFER; AUD-ALARM; VFX-PLASTER", "test": "Ivo cannot obstruct the transfer, trap an NPC in the hatch, or be crushed by the scripted stair. The brace remains reachable after every input permutation.", "campaign_start_min": 3, "campaign_end_min": 6}
{"id": "C01-S03", "chapter": 1, "title": "The useful shutter", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P01 timing / first Hold", "space": "16 m service corridor; 2.4 m tall shutter; safe observation alcove", "entry": "A shutter rises every six seconds and closes before Ivo can cross its full threshold. A white exposed contact moves with it; nearby unconnected pipes have no such fitting.", "action": "Stand within 3.2 m, face the contact and press Hold as the shutter rises. The process stops immediately. Cross beneath while maintaining Hold, then release once the safe floor beyond is reached. A low warning lip first demonstrates that a closing shutter pushes a loose tray aside. The optional glyph appears only after the player has had a chance to infer the interaction.", "threat": "First incomplete attempt is recoverable on the shallow threshold shelf. The inner pinch is lethal only after its motion and consequence are visible. No blind opening jump is required.", "exit": "The shutter resumes its six-second cycle, but a faint copy of its rattle persists in Ivo’s wrist. He grips his wrist briefly while locomotion remains responsive.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-04 before the shutter; CP-C01-05 beyond it. Initial target acquisition and released state must reconstruct identically.", "assets": "PUZ-SHUTTER; PROP-TRAY; SYS-HOLD; ANIM-HOLD-A; AUD-HOLD-MOTOR; CAM-PUZZLE", "test": "At least 4/5 fresh players can explain “it resumes, it does not repair” after a repeat demonstration. Test holding at 0%, 25%, 50% and 100% travel.", "campaign_start_min": 6, "campaign_end_min": 10}
{"id": "C01-S04", "chapter": 1, "title": "The tilted drum", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P02 spatial orientation", "space": "20 m maintenance bay; 3 m diameter indexed maintenance drum", "entry": "A rotating drum has one flat maintenance deck. It periodically aligns with the entry floor and an exit shelf 1.6 m away. Its main axle contact is clearly visible.", "action": "Observe the deck for one cycle, Hold when its tread is close to horizontal, step aboard and jump the 1.6 m exit gap. The player can arrest it at any phase; angles within the validated walkable range are legitimate solutions. A safe lower floor allows a failed alignment to be reconsidered without death.", "threat": "The danger is learning weight and footing, not an enemy. Hanging tools keep swinging when the drum is held, demonstrating that Hold is local.", "exit": "Ivo reaches a grille overlooking Anja’s transport route. His fingers trace a tiny circle after the axle restarts; the visual connection is subtle and repeatable.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-06 on the far shelf. Below-deck recoveries do not restart the room.", "assets": "PUZ-ROTATOR; PROP-TOOLS; KIT-SERVICE; ANIM-PLATFORM-BALANCE; VFX-DUST", "test": "Moving-platform transfer retains correct velocity and does not throw Ivo. Any stable solution angle inside tolerance passes, rather than one invisible exact angle.", "campaign_start_min": 10, "campaign_end_min": 14}
{"id": "C01-S05", "chapter": 1, "title": "Below the wheels", "minutes": 3, "kind": "Traversal / environmental tracking", "space": "30 m subfloor passage; one crawl and a 0.7 m ledge", "entry": "The transport wheels move along a grate overhead. Anja’s doubled sleeve stitching is visible through one gap. The route is lit by intermittent warm strips, not arrows.", "action": "Crouch beneath a pipe, climb a short ledge, and follow the moving shadows. A short optional recess reveals discarded terminal covers neatly stacked like household crockery. Returning to the route requires no puzzle reset.", "threat": "A Custodian’s boots stop directly above Ivo. Dust shakes onto his hair. He can keep moving; the worker is inspecting a load gauge, not using an invisible detection cone through the floor.", "exit": "A heavy service door separates Ivo from the transport, while an adjacent maintenance route remains open. Anja is lost from view for the first time.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-07 before the next pursuit. No checkpoint is placed inside the crawl transition.", "assets": "KIT-SERVICE; PROP-TERMINAL-COVERS; ANIM-CRAWL; AUD-FOOTSTEPS-OVERHEAD", "test": "The mother-tracking cue remains legible without sound. Foreground pipes never hide the climbable ledge.", "campaign_start_min": 14, "campaign_end_min": 17}
{"id": "C01-S06", "chapter": 1, "title": "The worker behind you", "minutes": 3, "kind": "P03 first pursuit", "space": "34 m chase lane; simple held shutter and refuge door", "entry": "A covered Custodian notices Ivo from a rear doorway, hesitates, and reaches toward him. The coat visibly covers his harness contact.", "action": "Run right, Hold the familiar exit shutter while it is high, crouch beneath the low final section, then release after the line is clear. The worker collides with the closed shutter and starts a slower reopening procedure. Ivo enters the laundry through a low side door the worker cannot immediately use.", "threat": "Pursuit uses a 2.0-second initial reaction window and a chase speed slightly above Ivo’s, balanced by the route obstacle. No random teleport, sprint slowdown or newly introduced jump is allowed.", "exit": "A door closes behind Ivo; machinery muffles the worker’s calls. The chapter ends through continuous traversal into the laundry, not a title card.", "checkpoint": "CP-C01-07 before detection; CP-C01-08 in the laundry airlock. A failed attempt repeats approximately 20–35 seconds, not the earlier drum puzzle.", "assets": "CHR-CUSTODIAN-COVERED; AI-CUSTODIAN; PUZ-SHUTTER; ANIM-CAPTURE; AUD-CHASE-A", "test": "A correctly executed taught sequence succeeds every time. Verify controller toggle-Hold, slow-read assistance and 30 fps input buffering.", "campaign_start_min": 17, "campaign_end_min": 20}
{"id": "C02-S01", "chapter": 2, "title": "Sleeves with no hands", "minutes": 3, "kind": "Exploration / motif", "space": "32 m laundry entry; foreground machines and deep rack aisles", "entry": "Rows of washed coats hang with sleeves tied shut. A few motionless attendants face walls between dryers. Water drips freely around completely stationary hanging racks.", "action": "Walk between idle machines, push a wheeled basket off a shallow drain cover, and step into the back corridor. Through frosted glass, a worker presses a hand into a fitting and a heavy roller stops elsewhere.", "threat": "One apparent silhouette behind a sheet is only a tied coat. Do not play a jump-scare sting. A genuine distant breath follows later from a wall fitting.", "exit": "The player has seen a person use the same infrastructure without yet seeing the permanent cost. The first free anchor is framed on the approach to the next obstacle.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-01 at basket passage. No irreversible basket trap: rail stops retain its handle.", "assets": "KIT-LAUNDRY; PROP-TIED-COAT; PROP-BASKET; AUD-WATER-DRIP; VFX-STEAM", "test": "The decorative coats are not mistaken for interactable targets. The critical anchor silhouette reads at 720p.", "campaign_start_min": 20, "campaign_end_min": 23}
{"id": "C02-S02", "chapter": 2, "title": "Someone else holds it", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P04 first transfer", "space": "18 m bay; 4 m drying bridge; ladder behind its far rail", "entry": "A drying bridge rises and tips under a counterweight. A free anchor stands at the near end. Beyond the bridge is a two-handed ladder that cannot be climbed while Ivo personally carries the Hold.", "action": "Arrest the bridge level. Approach the anchor and press Interact to hand off the load. Its vane remains taut when Hold is released. Walk across and climb the ladder with free hands. A failed attempt to climb while carrying the Hold gets a clear glance-and-hand response, not an involuntary release.", "threat": "No active enemy. A sharp breath comes from behind the anchor as transfer completes. A vibration propagates along the seam; it is a cue, not a jump scare.", "exit": "The player gains capacity through transfer and can see the bridge still suspended beneath him. No upgrade menu appears.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-02 before transfer; CP-C02-03 at ladder top. Anchor ownership must persist after save and reload.", "assets": "PUZ-DRYING-BRIDGE; PUZ-ANCHOR; SYS-TRANSFER; ANIM-LADDER; AUD-BEARER-INHALE", "test": "Players understand that releasing the button does not release an external anchor. Test failed destination validation, interrupted animation and rapid repeated Interact.", "campaign_start_min": 23, "campaign_end_min": 27}
{"id": "C02-S03", "chapter": 2, "title": "The hanging corridor", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P05 allocation / route construction", "space": "26 m two-tier rack room; two coupled rack lanes and one free anchor", "entry": "Two drying racks alternate across a narrow gap. Holding the lower rack allows access to a side crank; turning that crank repositions the upper rack but would strand Ivo if he kept the wrong load.", "action": "Hold the lower rack at the side landing, transfer it into the local anchor, then use the now-free brace to arrest the upper rack at an overhead crossing. Cross the lower landing, climb a short one-handed catch and jump from the upper rack to the exit. Only the local lower rack uses the anchor; the earlier bridge remains on its own separate circuit.", "threat": "A harmless descending rack squeezes a basket before the playable crossing, showing pinch danger. Falling into the drain trough is recoverable. The player never needs to juggle more than one personal process.", "exit": "The exit view shows both racks being sustained in different ways. One breathing rhythm is nearby; another is far below.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-04 after the lower rack is anchored, CP-C02-05 at exit. Restore the partial solution on a traversal failure.", "assets": "PUZ-RACK-PAIR; PROP-CRANK; PUZ-ANCHOR; SYS-HOLD-OWNER; CAM-WIDE-PUZZLE", "test": "Test every reachable rack phase. A valid alternative arrangement is accepted if its collision path is safe; no invisible required-operation sequence.", "campaign_start_min": 27, "campaign_end_min": 32}
{"id": "C02-S04", "chapter": 2, "title": "The wet sheet", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P06 stealth / occlusion", "space": "30 m rack aisle; three curtains, one light shutter, a single patrol", "entry": "A lamp behind a wet sheet reveals the Custodian’s silhouette. A thick blanket beside it fully obscures him. The two cover classes are demonstrated in the same composition before Ivo must hide.", "action": "Move the heavy blanket rack while the worker is away, creating an opaque refuge between two exposed floor strips. From refuge, Hold the lamp’s mechanical shutter closed—not the light itself—to cross behind the translucent sheet. Release from the next opaque cover so the patrol resumes without knowledge of Ivo’s hidden position.", "threat": "The Custodian investigates witnessed movement and audible rolling, not darkness values sampled unpredictably from pixels. Suspicion can decay behind valid cover. If spotted, a short retreat route remains until Capture.", "exit": "The player has used the civic restraint to hide from its maintainer. A sheet briefly clings to a human outline built into the next wall.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-06 before patrol entry; CP-C02-07 after the opaque rack is placed, with the patrol in a safe known phase.", "assets": "AI-COVER-VOLUME; PROP-SHEET-VARIANTS; PUZ-LIGHT-SHUTTER; AUD-RACK-ROLL", "test": "Visual cover and AI cover agree. Test backlit silhouettes, brightness settings, no-audio play and waiting through five complete patrol cycles.", "campaign_start_min": 32, "campaign_end_min": 37}
{"id": "C02-S05", "chapter": 2, "title": "The room behind the room", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P07 support foreshadow", "space": "18 m maintenance gap; pressure roller and sliding service brace", "entry": "A roller presses against a warped hatch. Ivo can Hold it, but releasing closes the route. A red-brown steel service prop sits on an adjacent short rail; its head matches a notch under the roller support.", "action": "Hold and transfer the roller into a free anchor, move the service prop into its obvious receiving notch, then deliberately take back and release the load. The support catches it with a dull mechanical click. The passage remains open without a taut porcelain vane.", "threat": "The first unsupported release closes the hatch slowly and can be reversed. This is a safe rehearsal of later bearer relief, not a premature full explanation.", "exit": "A long exhale follows. A hand-shaped indentation behind the wall softens. The ordinary support has done something the player will later understand as mercy.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-08 after prop engagement. Preserve Supported separately from HeldAnchor.", "assets": "PUZ-ROLLER; PUZ-SUPPORT-PROP; SYS-SUPPORT; ANIM-PUSH; AUD-LOAD-SETTLE", "test": "Support is accepted only in its physical socket, but tolerance is generous. No wedging tiny unrelated props beneath the roller is required or rewarded.", "campaign_start_min": 37, "campaign_end_min": 41}
{"id": "C02-S06", "chapter": 2, "title": "Under the porcelain", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Revelation / exit traversal", "space": "24 m cracked service passage with one optional observation recess", "entry": "A chipped hand fitting obstructs a narrow passage. Its porcelain casing has lifted enough to catch Ivo’s sleeve. The camera moves closer, without rotating away from the lane.", "action": "Interact once to free the sleeve and remove a loose fragment. Beneath it is a real fingernail. The finger subtly presses back against the fitting. Continue through the passage; the player can pause near it, but there is no collectible zoom view.", "threat": "The horror is recognition. No attack or loud sting follows the fingernail. Nearby machinery resumes its ordinary rhythm as though nothing has happened.", "exit": "The passage emerges behind apartment walls. A familiar domestic wallpaper pattern replaces industrial tile. The next chapter begins without a load screen.", "checkpoint": "CP-C02-09 after the fragment falls. The fragment and sleeve state cannot reset independently.", "assets": "PROP-HAND-REVEAL; ANIM-SLEEVE-SNAG; ANIM-FINGER-RESPONSE; AUD-PORCELAIN-CHIP; CAM-DETAIL", "test": "At least 4/5 testers identify a human finger rather than a mechanical imitation. Test silhouette, caption alternatives and reduced-detail graphics.", "campaign_start_min": 41, "campaign_end_min": 45}
{"id": "C03-S01", "chapter": 3, "title": "At the back of a kitchen", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Environmental exploration", "space": "36 m wall cavity; two window openings into domestic rooms", "entry": "Ivo moves behind a kitchen where three places are set. The visible room looks ordinary until a shoulder-shaped depression pulses through the wallpaper in time with a floor support.", "action": "Crawl below a bath, lift a light access flap and use a short step to view the kitchen from behind. There is no mandatory searchable document. A disconnected lunch tin and worn shoes belong to the person supporting the room.", "threat": "A household bell rings, followed by silence from the occupied space. Nobody attacks. The layout leaves room for observation before the next logic problem.", "exit": "The player recognizes that concealment is domestic and routine. A broken conductive handrail leads to the next obstruction.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-01 at wall-cavity exit.", "assets": "KIT-DOMESTIC-BACK; PROP-LUNCH-TIN; ENV-WALL-DEPRESS; AUD-HOUSE-BELL", "test": "Do not obscure the actual forward route behind the optional kitchen view. The bodily outline must remain subtle but readable.", "campaign_start_min": 45, "campaign_end_min": 49}
{"id": "C03-S02", "chapter": 3, "title": "Reach through a wall", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P08 conduit connectivity", "space": "22 m split room; remote hatch visible through a broken partition", "entry": "The exit hatch contact is beyond portable acquisition range. A ceramic handrail ends at a missing section. A matching conductive rail segment hangs on a maintenance hinge nearby.", "action": "Rotate the hinged segment into alignment using Interact, closing a visible circuit. Hold at the near contact and watch the remote hatch stop. Walk through the short rail-connected lane before disconnecting at the far end. The branch display shows the single addressed endpoint; decorative pipes remain dark and inert.", "threat": "No enemy. The hatch first demonstrates its cycle behind a safe grille. A failed connection refuses acquisition without changing existing ownership.", "exit": "The environment is now a connected network rather than isolated rooms. Tiny finger movements travel down two fittings as the signal passes.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-02 after rail connection; CP-C03-03 through hatch.", "assets": "PUZ-CONDUIT-HINGE; SYS-CONDUIT-GRAPH; PUZ-REMOTE-HATCH; VFX-CONTACT-TENSION", "test": "A graph disconnect, scene reload or candidate change cannot produce a remote Hold without a valid path. Color blindness cannot conceal the connection state.", "campaign_start_min": 49, "campaign_end_min": 54}
{"id": "C03-S03", "chapter": 3, "title": "The tilted dining room", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P09 geometry / changing support", "space": "28 m domestic cross-section; hinged floor and a counterweight cabinet", "entry": "A dining-room floor tilts around a central hinge. A cabinet is secured on a rail that changes the floor’s balance. A bearer behind the wall is hidden, but the floor contact and cabinet brake are visible.", "action": "Hold the floor near level from a wall contact, transfer into the local anchor, then move the cabinet to its marked rail stop. Take back the floor load and release; the shifted balance lowers the far end onto an existing masonry seat. The supported floor becomes a ramp to a high doorway. The table and plates settle rather than flying as random physics projectiles.", "threat": "A fall lands on a safe lower cavity. A descending floor edge is lethal only in a plainly visible pinch zone. Incidental crockery has no puzzle authority.", "exit": "The same room changes from protected domestic space into a traversable structure. A hidden bearer’s breathing becomes less strained when the masonry takes the load.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-04 after cabinet placement; CP-C03-05 after support contact.", "assets": "PUZ-HINGED-FLOOR; PROP-RAIL-CABINET; SYS-GRAVITY-PROCESS; PROP-PLATES", "test": "Cabinet placement and floor contact must be reproducible at all frame rates. Save during settling resumes to the same supported or unsupported state.", "campaign_start_min": 54, "campaign_end_min": 60}
{"id": "C03-S04", "chapter": 3, "title": "The staircase and Orren", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P10 first explicit relief", "space": "24 m stairwell; 4 m folding stair, accessible ratchet and bearer recess", "entry": "A folding stair hangs too steeply to climb. Behind its lower wall, an old man’s back mirrors its angle. His hand occupies the existing fitting; Ivo can take the load through the accessible service contact.", "action": "Take over the staircase Hold, let it descend gradually, and recapture it near 35 degrees. Pull the one-handed ratchet lever while maintaining Hold. The pawl visibly engages a broad tooth. Release. The stairs remain stable, and the old man—Orren—slowly uncurls his fingers. Climb only after he has moved clear of the footplate.", "threat": "Premature release without the ratchet returns the stair to a shallow catch, allowing retry. Do not kill Orren for an early learning error. His final release is an authored Supported condition, not a raw collision guess.", "exit": "Orren looks at Ivo, then at his own hand. He retreats toward a side refuge. The missing coat button and bent shoe establish a recognition motif.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-06 once the ratchet engages; CP-C03-07 after Orren clears the stair. Rescue flag and NPC safe pose commit together.", "assets": "PUZ-STAIR-RATCHET; CHR-ORREN; ANIM-BEARER-RELIEF; AUD-PAWL; NAR-ORREN-FREED", "test": "Narrative test: players can explain that a physical support replaced human effort. Technical test: Orren can never block the mandatory staircase.", "campaign_start_min": 60, "campaign_end_min": 65}
{"id": "C03-S05", "chapter": 3, "title": "The outside of the bedroom", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P11 coupled path / local detour", "space": "40 m connected cavities; 5 m optional bedroom recess", "entry": "A bedroom’s bedframe is bolted to a structural cable. Opening one wall hatch tightens a neighboring floor support and closes the route behind Ivo. Both mechanisms can be seen through staggered wall openings.", "action": "Use the conduit contact to Hold the hatch open, pass into the intermediate alcove, then engage a physical latch from its inner side. Release and use the freed personal Hold on the second support while crossing. The logic is a reversible two-step airlock with a stable middle refuge, not a hidden sequence of switches. In the recess, a child’s height marks continue across a replaced wallpaper patch covering an anchor.", "threat": "A Custodian moves in the inhabited background but does not enter the cavity. Door sounds build pressure without an actual timer.", "exit": "The route reconnects above the passenger interchange. Ivo’s shoulder now briefly matches the angular support he has just held.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-08 in the middle refuge; CP-C03-09 above interchange.", "assets": "PUZ-COUPLED-HATCH; PROP-INNER-LATCH; PROP-HEIGHT-MARKS; CAM-DEPTH-REVEAL", "test": "The central refuge remains safe in every reachable state. Backtracking before the inner latch cannot trap Ivo behind the first hatch.", "campaign_start_min": 65, "campaign_end_min": 71}
{"id": "C03-S06", "chapter": 3, "title": "A line that leads down", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Transition / central route reveal", "space": "45 m exterior service balcony descending to tram entrance", "entry": "For the first time, Ivo sees several tenements together. Their straight facades lean in mutually dependent directions. White ceramic seams join them like a second set of streets.", "action": "Descend a ladder, cross a short sheltered balcony and enter the tram service door. Anja’s transport passes far below at one timed crossing, triggered only when Ivo can see it. A maintenance sign uses a hand pictogram and the phrase HOLD UNTIL RELIEVED.", "threat": "Rain and a distant structural groan replace music. One small falling tile passes behind, not onto, the player. Do not add a surprise death to this observation beat.", "exit": "The transport destination becomes a physical objective. The city-scale network is foreshadowed without revealing the flood.", "checkpoint": "CP-C03-10 inside the passenger hall. Persist TransportGlimpseSeen.", "assets": "KIT-TENEMENT-EXTERIOR; PROP-HOLD-SIGN; VFX-RAIN; AUD-CITY-STRAIN; CAM-CITY-WIDE", "test": "A fast player cannot miss the transport entirely: delay its background crossing until the composition is valid, without freezing foreground control.", "campaign_start_min": 71, "campaign_end_min": 75}
{"id": "C04-S01", "chapter": 4, "title": "The waiting passengers", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Exploration / enemy port reveal", "space": "34 m passenger foyer; background inspection booth", "entry": "Rows of luggage face closed departure doors. Public arrows point toward temporary accommodation below ground. A Custodian steps into an inspection booth and lifts a waterproof harness cover.", "action": "Move beneath the booth window and open the low baggage hatch. Watch a service arm test the now-visible white contact: the worker’s body locks while his eyes move. This is a safe demonstration before player use.", "threat": "The worker cannot see Ivo in the opaque baggage trench. Avoid staging that looks like the player is safe only because AI is disabled without a reason.", "exit": "Exposed ports now identify holdable human harnesses. Covered workers retain their visible physical shielding.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-01 in baggage trench.", "assets": "KIT-TRAM; PROP-INSPECTION-BOOTH; CHR-CUSTODIAN-EXPOSED; ANIM-HARNESS-TEST", "test": "Players distinguish a covered contact from an exposed contact. No ability popup implies a magical new biological power.", "campaign_start_min": 75, "campaign_end_min": 79}
{"id": "C04-S02", "chapter": 4, "title": "His eyes are still moving", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P12 restrain a person", "space": "20 m inspection exit; frontal approach with retreat alcove", "entry": "An exposed Custodian opens the near door and sees Ivo. He extends his restraint arm; the ceramic contact faces the player. His approach is slow enough for recognition.", "action": "Hold the harness at any point before its capture reach. Pass within the 6 m connection envelope, use a one-handed side latch, and enter a protected recess. Release when the closed latch separates them. The camera keeps his face readable without a close-up cut.", "threat": "The body arrests; his eyes track Ivo and shallow breathing continues. The first capture retry begins before he opens the door, not back at the inspection demonstration.", "exit": "The player now knows that arrest is not unconsciousness. A matching breath is heard from the wall anchors on the next passage.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-02 before approach; CP-C04-03 in latched recess.", "assets": "SYS-HARNESS-HOLD; ANIM-EYE-TRACK; AUD-CUSTODIAN-BREATH; PROP-SIDE-LATCH", "test": "The restrained pose cannot retain an active capture volume. Eye animation continues but skeleton-root movement and locomotion do not.", "campaign_start_min": 79, "campaign_end_min": 84}
{"id": "C04-S03", "chapter": 4, "title": "One hand, two dangers", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P13 sequencing / enemy and machine", "space": "30 m baggage ramp; rolling trolley, foot brake, shutter and exposed worker", "entry": "An exit shutter needs Hold, but the Custodian stands between Ivo and its contact. A trolley rests on an inclined rail; a physical stop can wedge it across the worker’s lane.", "action": "Before entering the worker’s sightline, position the trolley at its release mark with both hands. Freeze the approaching harness, then use the one-handed brake release from cover. Gravity rolls the trolley into the lane stop. Release the worker; he must move the blocked trolley before advancing. Hold the shutter and escape. Ivo never performs a two-handed push while maintaining Hold.", "threat": "A prematurely released trolley can be reset from the sheltered crank. The worker has no teleporting bypass and cannot randomly ignore the heavy obstacle. Capture repeats the current attempt only.", "exit": "The player has solved a release problem: success required planning what the restrained person would do after regaining movement.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-04 after trolley staging and before detection; CP-C04-05 beyond shutter.", "assets": "PUZ-TROLLEY-BRAKE; AI-BLOCKED-PATH; PUZ-SHUTTER; ANIM-CUSTODIAN-HEAVE", "test": "At least two frames of overlap in hold/transfer inputs cannot skip ownership rules. Validate early brake release, holding the shutter too soon and reversing along the ramp.", "campaign_start_min": 84, "campaign_end_min": 90}
{"id": "C04-S04", "chapter": 4, "title": "The Braced Porter", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P14 moving rescue rig / horror traversal", "space": "38 m luggage hall; overhead rescue path and suspended access basket", "entry": "A rescue rig sweeps a long arm through the hall, gathering abandoned luggage into a safety cage. A human worker hangs inside it. The rig’s path, pauses and exposed main brake contact are shown once from a safe shelf.", "action": "Move a luggage frame beneath the overhead track while the rig is away. Climb it, acquire the main harness contact, and Hold the rig when its suspended access basket is level with a service ledge. Step onto the basket floor—not the person—and make a short one-handed ledge catch to the exit. Maintain the link until solid ground; release and watch the entire rescue cycle resume.", "threat": "The rig can secure Ivo if approached during its capture stroke. Its main Hold stops the full authored carriage/harness process; there is no unexplained partial immunity. Loose hoses and the worker’s eyes remain active.", "exit": "A person has become the restrained support beneath Ivo’s crossing. The worker’s faint attempt to lift his fingers is readable from the far ledge.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-06 after the luggage frame is positioned; CP-C04-07 on exit ledge.", "assets": "CHR-PORTER; PUZ-RESCUE-RIG; PROP-LUGGAGE-FRAME; ANIM-PORTER-CYCLE; AUD-RIG-BREATH", "test": "All capture strokes have visible windup. The basket stays stable under Ivo during Hold; release within contact range cannot impart an unbounded launch impulse.", "campaign_start_min": 90, "campaign_end_min": 96}
{"id": "C04-S05", "chapter": 4, "title": "The tram that never arrived", "minutes": 5, "kind": "P15 balance / controlled settlement", "space": "30 m derailment bay; one tram section and two support shoes", "entry": "A tram hangs partly off its track. Two service shoes can slide beneath the wheel flange. The original suspension contact leads toward the burden rooms.", "action": "Use the local ratcheted hand winch to raise the near tram edge slightly, Hold its certified brake process, and engage the first shoe with a one-handed lever. Repeat from the other visible service point for the second shoe; both are parts of one supported assembly. Release so the carriage settles onto the shoes. Its interior now makes a sloping passage.", "threat": "Unsupported movement is visibly hazardous, but service alcoves are safe. The tram does not depend on unconstrained rigidbody tipping; its authored hinge and support tests determine safe settlement.", "exit": "The player physically relieves a load while following its former connection. One distant sustained note stops for the first time in the hall.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-08 after each support shoe locks; CP-C04-09 inside supported tram.", "assets": "ENV-TRAM-HERO; PUZ-SUPPORT-SHOES; PUZ-WINCH; AUD-TRAM-SETTLE", "test": "Either shoe can be prepared first. A one-shoe state saves correctly and cannot become an unrecoverable tilt.", "campaign_start_min": 96, "campaign_end_min": 101}
{"id": "C04-S06", "chapter": 4, "title": "The other side of the fittings", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Revelation / chapter transition", "space": "26 m descending cable gallery; view through opened maintenance wall", "entry": "A Custodian behind a barred opening recognizes the direction Ivo is taking. He does not attack through the bars; his eyes turn toward rows of narrow cabinets below.", "action": "Open an ordinary service latch and descend. The camera passes behind the wall rather than cutting to a separate laboratory. The first cabinet reveals an intact person with a hand in the socket previously seen from its public side.", "threat": "No immediate pursuit. Machinery and breathing align precisely enough to connect cause and effect. Do not fill the room with unrelated grotesque props.", "exit": "The central mystery becomes concrete: hidden conscious people sustain the infrastructure. The burden rooms are physically continuous with familiar spaces.", "checkpoint": "CP-C04-10 after entering bearer gallery.", "assets": "ENV-ANCHOR-BACK; CHR-BEARER; ANIM-BEARER-STRAIN; AUD-MACHINE-BODY-LINK", "test": "Narrative comprehension check without leading questions: ask what the cabinets do and what the person experiences.", "campaign_start_min": 101, "campaign_end_min": 105}
{"id": "C05-S01", "chapter": 5, "title": "The people carrying the town", "minutes": 5, "kind": "Exploration / recognition", "space": "42 m narrow bearer galleries; three glimpses of earlier mechanisms", "entry": "The reverse sides of the laundry roller, kitchen floor and tram brake occupy adjoining rooms. A woman’s fingers repeat the roller rhythm. A man’s shoulders hold the floor angle. These are exact visual and audio callbacks, not arbitrary new victims.", "action": "Cross low maintenance platforms and open a light ventilation flap for a bearer whose hand remains occupied. Orren is briefly visible recovering in a protected upper refuge. He rubs his bent shoe and watches the exit route rather than joining Ivo.", "threat": "No enemy attacks during the first complete view. Some bearers look toward Ivo; others can only move their eyes. The player can stop and recognize the connection.", "exit": "The consequence of earlier transfers becomes personal. A blocked service support creates the next opportunity to act differently.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-01 beyond recognition gallery. Freed states from earlier chapters are reflected through saved proxies.", "assets": "CHR-BEARER-VARIANTS; ENV-ANCHOR-BACK; AUD-CALLBACKS; PROP-VENT-FLAP; CHR-ORREN", "test": "Earlier relieved processes must not still show their bearers straining. Verify both direct chapter start presets and continuous campaign state.", "campaign_start_min": 105, "campaign_end_min": 110}
{"id": "C05-S02", "chapter": 5, "title": "Make room for a support", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P16 dependency relief, part A", "space": "28 m slab chamber; access platform blocks a support rail", "entry": "A roof slab is sustained by a woman in a wall cradle. A support trolley could take the weight, but its rail passes beneath a lowered maintenance platform. Raising that platform blocks Ivo’s own return route.", "action": "Hold the platform at its upper position and transfer it to an unused service anchor. Cross beneath it, slide the support trolley along the now-clear rail, and engage its parking pawl beneath the slab. The supporter’s head is still too low; its screw jack must be reached from a different level.", "threat": "A safely staged small fragment falls from the slab before entry. The main slab does not instantly kill its bearer on an incomplete attempt; her existing connection remains active until a deliberate valid takeover.", "exit": "The player has prepared relief but not completed it. The clearly visible screw jack gives the next local objective; no key hunt interrupts the dependency.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-02 after trolley parking. Save platform owner, trolley coordinate and pawl state together.", "assets": "PUZ-SLAB; PUZ-SUPPORT-TROLLEY; PUZ-ACCESS-PLATFORM; CHR-BEARER-WOMAN", "test": "Neither trolley endpoint can block the sole return path permanently. The side service lever restores the platform when no Hold is active.", "campaign_start_min": 110, "campaign_end_min": 116}
{"id": "C05-S03", "chapter": 5, "title": "A room without a bearer", "minutes": 7, "kind": "P17 dependency relief, part B", "space": "30 m connected upper service ledge and slab jack", "entry": "The upper ledge overlooks the trolley staged below. An offset conduit port gives access to the slab restraint. Two mechanical gauges show contact and lock, using shapes rather than color alone.", "action": "Climb with free hands, turn the screw jack until its broad saddle contacts the slab, then engage the lock collar. Take the slab load through the service port and release gently. If the jack is too low, the slab settles only to the bearer’s existing safety stop and can be re-Held; the test is reversible. Once contact and collar are valid, the slab becomes Supported and the woman steps clear. Retrieve the now-unneeded platform Hold so its second bearer can relax as well.", "threat": "The threat is understanding interdependence, not a countdown. A periodic pipe knock sounds like footsteps but remains clearly mechanical on observation.", "exit": "Two burdens have been eliminated by one correctly supported structure. The empty cradles form a visible contrast with the occupied gallery behind.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-03 after slab support; CP-C05-04 after platform relief. The second release is required for the forward maintenance hatch to settle open.", "assets": "PUZ-SCREW-JACK; SYS-SUPPORT-CONDITION; ANIM-BEARER-STAND; AUD-TWO-RELIEFS", "test": "Test all jack heights around tolerance, save during contact, and attempting relief in reverse order. No state should require restarting the entire prior sequence.", "campaign_start_min": 116, "campaign_end_min": 123}
{"id": "C05-S04", "chapter": 5, "title": "Mother, in more than one place", "minutes": 7, "kind": "Major narrative reveal / P18 takeover test", "space": "32 m central antechamber; human opening and distributed structural contacts", "entry": "Anja’s face appears behind a narrow opening. The doubled cuff and two taps establish identity. As Ivo approaches, the camera reveals that her arm enters a structural band and its motion continues at separated points along the wall.", "action": "Approach the exposed service hand and take one local load. Her fingers briefly relax. Interact to try the release handle, but the adjacent occupied-room supports visibly begin to move. A mechanical safety catch stops the attempt before injury. Anja closes Ivo’s hand on the brace, then pushes it away from a second central socket. The player can move within the room during the reframing; only the hand contact uses a short staged alignment.", "threat": "This is not a boss encounter or a hidden test of rescuing her faster. The installation has already changed her body, and nothing in the tool can undo damage. A sustained breath in multiple walls makes the scale apparent.", "exit": "The immediate rescue goal becomes impossible in its original form. A root conduit and a hydraulic schematic embossed in relief show where the remaining load goes.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-05 before recognition; CP-C05-06 after Anja refuses the second contact. A replay offers a brief cinematic-skip route to the same authoritative state.", "assets": "CHR-ANJA-INTEGRATED; ENV-ROOT-PROXY; ANIM-ANJA-REFUSAL; CAM-ROOT-REVEAL; AUD-ANJA-MULTIPOINT", "test": "Essential comprehension: intact bearer versus physically integrated bearer. At least 4/5 narrative testers understand why a simple disconnect cannot restore her.", "campaign_start_min": 123, "campaign_end_min": 130}
{"id": "C05-S05", "chapter": 5, "title": "The place prepared for you", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P19 interface / identity threat", "space": "26 m replacement bay; empty cradle and three mechanical bypass contacts", "entry": "An empty bearer cradle faces Anja’s installation. Its forearm plates fit the posture Ivo now adopts while holding. A Custodian begins preparing its straps behind glass.", "action": "Use an external service contact, not the cradle, to arrest the carriage bringing the footplate forward. Engage a bypass lever that redirects a maintenance walkway into position. Cross the walkway while the carriage remains personally held, then exit onto a nonconductive stone shelf before release. The cradle remains unused.", "threat": "The Custodian sees Ivo but has a locked inspection door between them. He changes from pursuit behavior to preparing equipment. This is an observable action, not a disembodied evil speech.", "exit": "The player understands that their growing competence makes them useful to the system. Ivo’s fingers rest in the cradle’s shape even after the load is released.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-07 after walkway alignment; CP-C05-08 beyond cradle bay.", "assets": "ENV-REPLACEMENT-CRADLE; PUZ-CARRIAGE; PROP-BYPASS-LEVER; ANIM-IVO-STRAIN-2", "test": "The mandatory route does not accidentally attach Ivo to the permanent cradle. Holding the carriage cannot hold the Custodian through the glass.", "campaign_start_min": 130, "campaign_end_min": 136}
{"id": "C05-S06", "chapter": 5, "title": "Follow the pressure", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Transition / forward objective", "space": "46 m hydraulic stair; physical schematic repeats across walls", "entry": "Heavy conduits converge toward the seawall. Small relief models show water, a closed discharge and an inland pedestrian route. The symbols match actual machinery visible later.", "action": "Descend two ordinary ladders and open a service gate with a fixed crank. A tiny leak runs outward through a drain, giving the first physical hint that a seaward release path exists. A distant tap is recognizable but cannot guide every footstep.", "threat": "Silence expands between slow structural knocks. No enemy reappears merely to fill the transition.", "exit": "Ivo is now following the source of Anja’s burden rather than her transport. The next space opens toward impossible suspended water.", "checkpoint": "CP-C05-09 at seawall access. No checkpoint on a ladder.", "assets": "KIT-HYDRAULIC; PROP-RELIEF-SCHEMATIC; AUD-PRESSURE-PULSE; VFX-LEAK", "test": "Players can describe the forward objective without reading text: reach the water restraints and find a release route.", "campaign_start_min": 136, "campaign_end_min": 140}
{"id": "C06-S01", "chapter": 6, "title": "The sea is below us", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Large-scale revelation", "space": "55 m gallery; suspended-water vista and distant real horizon", "entry": "A mass of water hangs between broken bracing fins above the district. Loose rain falls in front of it. Through a breach beyond, the ordinary sea sits far below the trapped waterline.", "action": "Walk across the observation gallery. The camera gradually widens to show both water levels in one composition. A maintenance level marker and dried tide residue reinforce that the exterior surge has receded. The player can stop; no compulsory camera lock is needed.", "threat": "A trapped boat presses against the held surface but does not move. Far below, waves still break normally. The contradiction is spatial and physical, not a dream filter.", "exit": "The player learns that the system has preserved an emergency whose original external cause has passed. Letting go remains dangerous until a route is prepared.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-01 at the gallery end after the complete view.", "assets": "ENV-SUSPENDED-SURGE; ENV-SEA-DISTANT; PROP-TIDE-MARK; CAM-FLOOD-REVEAL; AUD-WATER-HELD", "test": "At least 4/5 testers distinguish trapped water from the ordinary sea. Both levels remain visible at supported aspect ratios.", "campaign_start_min": 140, "campaign_end_min": 144}
{"id": "C06-S02", "chapter": 6, "title": "A smaller junction", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P20 stationary assembly rehearsal", "space": "24 m relay room; three visible branches and stationary foot brace", "entry": "A certified relay station connects a door restraint, a maintenance lift and a small drain gate. All three endpoints fit within the initial wide composition. The foot brace resembles, but does not close like, the permanent cradle.", "action": "Connect using Interact. Ivo becomes stationary. Directional input moves selection along the visible branch links; Hold engages the selected station latch and Interact releases that latch, allowing the process to move. The station mechanically retains other branches while selection changes. First arrest the lift at the landing, engage its mechanical stop with the station’s paired lever, then open the drain and allow the door counterweight to settle. The body can disconnect once all three reach supported or safe states.", "threat": "No enemy and no lethal timer. If the player forgets a branch, a rattling gauge and moving linkage identify the unresolved load. A small handplate moves with Ivo’s fingers.", "exit": "The final control transformation is taught in miniature before the climax. Ivo withdraws intact; the camera returns continuously to his body.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-02 at connection; CP-C06-03 after the rehearsal resolves. Save selected node and camera transition stage.", "assets": "PUZ-RELAY-THREE; SYS-NETWORK-CONTROL; CAM-NODE-TRAVEL; ANIM-STATION-CONNECT", "test": "Players select and release the correct branch using controller or keyboard without free-pointer aim. Node IDs survive reload and are never inferred from screen position.", "campaign_start_min": 144, "campaign_end_min": 150}
{"id": "C06-S03", "chapter": 6, "title": "Give the water a route", "minutes": 7, "kind": "P21 discharge preparation", "space": "48 m seaward channel; sliding barrier, counterweight and inspection window", "entry": "The original discharge channel is blocked by a barrier held half closed. Its counterweight hangs above an accessible locking rack. A small existing leak makes the downhill path visible.", "action": "From the assembly contact, take the barrier restraint, let its counterweight descend until a broad locking tooth aligns, and arrest it. Disconnect only after using the adjacent one-handed lever to secure the rack. Open the discharge barrier through a separate mechanical crank; its weight now rests on the lock, not a bearer. Water from the test leak reaches the visible sea outlet.", "threat": "The main suspended surge remains on the root circuit. Opening this small channel cannot accidentally trigger the final flood. Falling into the narrow inspection drain is recoverable by a ladder.", "exit": "Set DischargeOpen. The first of the ending’s three physical prerequisites is permanently satisfied, with visible water flow as confirmation.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-04 after rack lock; CP-C06-05 after outlet test. Persist safe barrier endpoint, not a transient rigidbody pose.", "assets": "PUZ-DISCHARGE-BARRIER; PUZ-COUNTERWEIGHT-RACK; VFX-TEST-FLOW; AUD-OUTLET", "test": "The final release cannot occur from this station. Verify the test-flow cue and its caption/visual equivalent on all quality tiers.", "campaign_start_min": 150, "campaign_end_min": 157}
{"id": "C06-S04", "chapter": 6, "title": "The fallen section becomes a wall", "minutes": 7, "kind": "P22 prediction / controlled collapse", "space": "50 m broken harbor span; pivoting concrete panel and receiving sockets", "entry": "A fractured span hangs over both a pedestrian route and the prepared discharge. Its broad panel could direct water away from the route, but it is suspended at the wrong angle.", "action": "Use the local winch to shift two receiving blocks along short constrained rails. Connect to the panel assembly, let it lower toward the blocks, and Hold at the inspection angle to check alignment. Once both sockets align, release into the blocks. The panel becomes a fixed deflector, sheltering the pedestrian route and leaving the discharge unobstructed. A small test stream visibly follows it seaward.", "threat": "A premature drop lands on a service catch, not a catastrophic unrecoverable collapse. The catch can be winched back up. Final Supported status requires both block locks and panel contact.", "exit": "Set DeflectorStable. What looked like destruction becomes an engineered protective action, preparing the emotional logic of the ending.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-06 after each receiving-block lock; CP-C06-07 after deflector settlement.", "assets": "ENV-CONCRETE-DEFLECTOR; PUZ-RECEIVING-BLOCKS; SYS-ASSEMBLY-SUPPORT; VFX-CONCRETE-DUST", "test": "No procedural destruction simulation determines puzzle success. Test each block offset and confirm a recoverable catch for invalid configurations.", "campaign_start_min": 157, "campaign_end_min": 164}
{"id": "C06-S05", "chapter": 6, "title": "The building breathes with you", "minutes": 7, "kind": "P23 assembly under pressure / identity horror", "space": "42 m braced corridor; large linked supports and one approaching worker", "entry": "Ivo must take a whole corridor support assembly while its mechanical bypass seats. On connection, nearby structural bands tighten in the rhythm of his breathing. Turning his head shifts a linked inspection arm, not the camera randomly.", "action": "Connect at the assembly station, release the bypass carriage until its rail reaches the visible stop, Hold to align its saddle, and engage the lock with the station lever. A Custodian approaches behind a clear partition and starts fitting a permanent cuff around the station. The completed bypass opens Ivo’s withdrawal path before that apparatus reaches him.", "threat": "The cuff’s progress is an authored response to load-routing stages, not a hidden universal death timer. Hesitation retains tension but does not punish contemplation with an unexplained fail. Capture only occurs after a clearly signaled local final approach, with a checkpoint before it.", "exit": "The corridor remains stable after Ivo disconnects. He has felt the building as part of his body and narrowly avoided becoming its fixture. Set EvacuationBypassReady.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-08 after mechanical saddle alignment; CP-C06-09 beyond withdrawal door.", "assets": "ENV-BREATHING-SUPPORTS; PUZ-BYPASS-SADDLE; ANIM-IVO-STRAIN-3; AUD-BUILDING-BREATH", "test": "No motion sickness-inducing camera oscillation. Anatomical motion affects environmental presentation, not aim accuracy or locomotion latency.", "campaign_start_min": 164, "campaign_end_min": 171}
{"id": "C06-S06", "chapter": 6, "title": "An inland path", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Preparation / final-act approach", "space": "44 m elevated service return; visible survivor refuge and junction entrance", "entry": "The inland footway is visible beyond the trapped district. The survivors wait behind a tram bridge and a blocked shutter. Orren stands among them, supporting himself on an ordinary rail.", "action": "Move a small access ladder into its fixed hooks and open the junction service door. Through the wall, Anja gives two taps, slower but recognizable. The route establishes the spatial relationship among the survivors, the central station and the final root passage.", "threat": "There is no pursuit. Distant machinery provides a constant unresolved pressure, then drops to near silence at the station doorway.", "exit": "The next objective is legible: use the junction to open those visible routes, not save an abstract population in unseen rooms.", "checkpoint": "CP-C06-10 before central entry. The three preparation flags are validated here; missing mandatory flags indicate a content bug and block QA sign-off, not a player punishment.", "assets": "ENV-INLAND-FOOTWAY; PROP-ACCESS-LADDER; CHR-SURVIVOR-COHORT; CAM-EVAC-OVERVIEW", "test": "Every route is physically continuous in the level manifest. The chapter start preset must include all required prior relief flags.", "campaign_start_min": 171, "campaign_end_min": 175}
{"id": "C07-S01", "chapter": 7, "title": "The last bearer", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Climax setup / central connection", "space": "24 m central junction; body visible across linked windows", "entry": "Anja’s strain reaches a breaking rhythm. The central junction presents one aggregate restraint plate and a mechanical discharge handle that remains blocked by unresolved evacuation loads. The prepared permanent collar is open.", "action": "Approach and connect. The station temporarily takes Ivo as the aggregate bearer of the remaining local network. Existing held branches remain held under this single engineered assembly. Directional input selects a branch to release or recapture; it does not give unlimited independent personal Holds. The camera follows the conduit outward, leaving Ivo’s body still visible briefly behind.", "threat": "Power comes with immobility. The station’s collar responds to the aggregate load, visibly tightening. No combat begins.", "exit": "The player understands that bodily movement has changed into network navigation. This reuses the chapter 6 rehearsal with a larger consequence.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-01 before connection; CP-C07-02 in the initial network state.", "assets": "ENV-CENTRAL-JUNCTION; SYS-AGGREGATE-HOLD; CAM-NETWORK-ENTRY; ANIM-IVO-CONNECT", "test": "Ownership graph has one aggregate station owner with defined branches, not multiple uncontrolled personal owners. Disconnect is unavailable until the mechanical withdrawal condition is met.", "campaign_start_min": 175, "campaign_end_min": 179}
{"id": "C07-S02", "chapter": 7, "title": "See who must cross", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Network orientation / dependency preview", "space": "Three linked views; maximum three selectable nodes visible at once", "entry": "The camera reaches the waiting survivors, then the suspended tram crossing and the shelter canopy. Familiar fittings carry the same shapes and sound patterns used earlier.", "action": "Use directional selection to inspect each adjacent node. A trial release of the empty canopy branch lowers it toward a broad support stop; recapturing is safe. The tram’s support rails and a shutter interlock are visible in the next view. Mechanical indicators show which routes are physically passable; no abstract strategy map replaces the world.", "threat": "Survivors wait behind safety gates and look toward opening routes. They do not blindly walk under moving loads. Their breathing is independent, contrasting with the network’s common rhythm.", "exit": "The player has a comprehensible local plan before responsibility becomes active. Three nodes per view limits selection burden.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-03 after canopy rehearsal; preserve all settled states.", "assets": "SYS-NODE-SELECT; AI-EVAC-SAFETY; PUZ-CANOPY; CAM-DEPENDENCY-VIEW", "test": "At least 4/5 first-time players can identify which physical obstruction to resolve first without a spoken explanation.", "campaign_start_min": 179, "campaign_end_min": 183}
{"id": "C07-S03", "chapter": 7, "title": "A bridge for people who choose to move", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P24 network evacuation, first crossing", "space": "Two network views; tram assembly, support stop and access shutter", "entry": "A small survivor group waits at the near tram platform. The suspended carriage is too high to cross; its lower support was stabilized earlier but a final overhead restraint remains.", "action": "Release the tram branch until it settles on the prepared supports. A contact gauge verifies Supported. Select the access shutter and maintain its open process while the first group crosses the carriage interior. Once the last person clears the crossing sensor, release the shutter; it closes behind them and blocks a falling debris route. The survivors walk themselves, with individual pauses and gestures.", "threat": "The collar around Ivo advances a visible stage as the remaining load redistributes. It does not end the game merely because the player spends longer choosing a node. A dangerous branch release triggers a visible safety interlock and a reversible stop, not an offscreen civilian massacre.", "exit": "The first evacuation dependency is removed. A branch goes physically slack, and the corresponding sound disappears from the station.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-04 after tram settlement; CP-C07-05 after first group reaches refuge. Survivor IDs and route phase persist.", "assets": "SYS-EVAC-GROUP-A; ENV-TRAM-RETURN-PROXY; PUZ-EVAC-SHUTTER; AUD-BRANCH-RELIEF", "test": "Every survivor clears before shutter closure. Save/reload at each individual crossing boundary; do not duplicate or lose actors across streamed scenes.", "campaign_start_min": 183, "campaign_end_min": 189}
{"id": "C07-S04", "chapter": 7, "title": "The shelter becomes ordinary", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P25 network evacuation, second crossing", "space": "Two further views; canopy, sliding stair landing and final walkway", "entry": "The next group, including Orren, waits below the supported canopy. A stair landing remains held at the wrong height. Beyond it, the inland route is now physically clear.", "action": "Lower the canopy fully into its mechanical stops, freeing that branch. Release and recapture the stair landing at the alignment mark; the pre-engaged pawl locks it. Open the final walkway shutter and maintain it while the group crosses. Orren pauses to help another bearer, then continues without a player command. Once all are on stone ground, close the shutter to separate them from the root-discharge area.", "threat": "Ivo’s stationary silhouette now echoes the walls. The entire building breathes with him at the beginning, but each supported branch removes part of that response. The transformation unwinds because of concrete actions.", "exit": "Set EvacuationComplete for the established cohort. The aggregate load falls within the portable root interface’s defined local capacity.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-06 after landing lock; CP-C07-07 when final survivor clears. Max two active evacuation groups, pooled and explicitly indexed.", "assets": "SYS-EVAC-GROUP-B; CHR-ORREN; PUZ-STAIR-LANDING; ANIM-SURVIVOR-HELP; AUD-NETWORK-THIN", "test": "NPC delays cannot deadlock the route. A timeout requests a safe repath at the current refuge, never a visible teleport through a hazard.", "campaign_start_min": 189, "campaign_end_min": 195}
{"id": "C07-S05", "chapter": 7, "title": "Withdraw your hands", "minutes": 6, "kind": "P26 exit the junction / bodily return", "space": "28 m central station return and lowered maintenance catwalk", "entry": "The camera returns along now-slack conduits to Ivo. The collar has stopped short of closing because its load-driven carriage no longer advances. A mechanical release lever is within his left-hand reach.", "action": "Use Interact to disengage the trial forearm plate, maintain the local withdrawal restraint through the portable brace, and step backward out of the station. Walk the catwalk, release a now-supported secondary fitting and disconnect an unused conduit bridge. The root remains on Anja until the final handover; Ivo’s personal brace carries only the temporary local withdrawal restraint during this exit.", "threat": "No last-minute new enemy enters. The danger is a short familiar unstable step that must be supported before he relinquishes the local withdrawal restraint. His stride is initially stiff through animation, not reduced control speed.", "exit": "Ivo is physically himself again, though his hand remains curled. The system no longer needs the full central junction to sustain the final root branch.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-08 after forearm release; CP-C07-09 on stone catwalk. Explicitly transfer the local withdrawal restraint to support before clearing station ownership.", "assets": "ANIM-IVO-WITHDRAW; PUZ-LOCAL-WITHDRAWAL; SYS-WITHDRAWAL-HANDOFF; CAM-RETURN-BODY", "test": "No contradictory simultaneous root owners. The final root is still Anja’s until C08-S03, and all previous branches remain Resolved after disconnect.", "campaign_start_min": 195, "campaign_end_min": 201}
{"id": "C07-S06", "chapter": 7, "title": "No one is pulling you onward", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Quiet approach / emotional reset", "space": "40 m low root passage; exposed nonconductive stone", "entry": "The usual taps and mechanical rhythms have mostly stopped. Through a high gap, the survivors are already on the inland route. Their movement is irregular and human.", "action": "Traverse a low crawl, open a light inspection hatch and descend a short stair. Ivo can look back at the receding conduits. A single recognizable doubled cuff is visible ahead.", "threat": "Use near silence with soft footsteps and breathing. Do not insert a false chase or a cheap last scare after the evacuation payoff.", "exit": "The game narrows from town-scale responsibility to one hand and one relationship.", "checkpoint": "CP-C07-10 before the final root chamber.", "assets": "KIT-ROOT-STONE; AUD-POST-JUNCTION; CAM-NARROW-APPROACH; CHR-SURVIVOR-DISTANT", "test": "Transition into the final chamber must not stream-stall. Emotional pauses remain optional rather than enforced idle timers.", "campaign_start_min": 201, "campaign_end_min": 205}
{"id": "C08-S01", "chapter": 8, "title": "Check the path you made", "minutes": 3, "kind": "P27 final physical verification", "space": "24 m root service walkway; three mechanically linked indicators", "entry": "Three physical linkages converge beside the root: open discharge, seated deflector and closed evacuation separator. Each corresponds to a structure the player changed earlier.", "action": "Walk past the linkages and operate the final ordinary drain-test lever. A thin stream follows the discharge rather than the evacuated path. All prerequisites are mandatory campaign results, so this verifies the player’s work rather than introducing a late fetch quest.", "threat": "A low creak persists in the root connection. There is no screen countdown, morality score or “good ending” message.", "exit": "The release route is visibly safe for the established survivors. Ivo has earned the final action through the campaign’s physical changes.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-01 after test flow. Validate DischargeOpen, DeflectorStable and EvacuationComplete.", "assets": "PROP-FINAL-LINKAGES; PUZ-DRAIN-TEST; VFX-TEST-FLOW-FINAL; AUD-ROOT-STRAIN", "test": "A broken flag indicates an implementation error caught by automated progression tests, not an intended alternate ending.", "campaign_start_min": 205, "campaign_end_min": 208}
{"id": "C08-S02", "chapter": 8, "title": "Two taps", "minutes": 4, "kind": "Final meeting / cinematic interaction", "space": "14 m intimate root alcove; Ivo and Anja’s remaining hand", "entry": "Anja’s hand rests in the root terminal. The doubled cuff is still visible. Her face is no longer framed; recognition relies on what the game has taught.", "action": "Approach and place Ivo’s free hand beside hers with Interact. She gives two taps, now separated by effort. He returns them. The short aligned interaction lasts about eight seconds, then ordinary movement and the final contact are available. The remainder of the beat includes approaching, observing and understanding, not four minutes of mandatory cinematic.", "threat": "No external threat interrupts the goodbye. The fear is irreversible loss and the possibility of remaining attached forever.", "exit": "Anja withdraws her fingers slightly toward the portable handover fitting. She is not commanding suicide; the visible network state establishes that the root cannot sustain her body after relief.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-02 after the gesture; replaying a checkpoint need not repeat it.", "assets": "ANIM-FINAL-TAPS; CHR-ANJA-HAND; CAM-HAND-TWO-SHOT; AUD-ANJA-FINAL", "test": "The gesture reads at normal viewing distance. Captions describe the taps without interpreting the player’s emotions.", "campaign_start_min": 208, "campaign_end_min": 212}
{"id": "C08-S03", "chapter": 8, "title": "Let it move", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P28 final handover / intentional release", "space": "16 m root fitting with view of first discharge movement", "entry": "The portable handover contact matches the first useful shutter. The last remaining vane is taut. The ordinary sea outlet is faintly visible beyond the deflector.", "action": "Acquire the root Hold, transferring its one remaining local restraint from Anja to Ivo. Keep the input held to postpone release; the game allows contemplation. On deliberate release, the root gate opens through its prepared safe trajectory and water begins moving seaward. In toggle mode, use the same release action after the final gesture, with a subtle optional confirmation prompt. Menus, focus loss and device disconnection never count as deliberate release.", "threat": "Anja’s hand relaxes as the central tissues lose tension. Her death is quiet, not a gore reward. No hidden branch judges how many seconds the player waited.", "exit": "Set RootReleased. The active network disconnects; the brace is now inert because there is no powered restraint path. A shallow water front makes the exit direction obvious.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-03 before acquisition; CP-C08-04 immediately after the release commit and before escape. Reload never repeats the decision unless explicitly restarting the prior checkpoint.", "assets": "SYS-ROOT-RELEASE; ANIM-HAND-RELAX; VFX-DISCHARGE; AUD-ROOT-UNLOAD; NAR-ROOT-RELEASED", "test": "Test alt-tab, pause, unplugged controller, remapping and toggle mode at the decision. Only a player release command commits the ending event.", "campaign_start_min": 212, "campaign_end_min": 216}
{"id": "C08-S04", "chapter": 8, "title": "The last moving corridor", "minutes": 4, "kind": "P29 familiar escape", "space": "56 m escape lane; two short jumps, one slide and visible settling structures", "entry": "Water travels away through the cleared outlet while the root corridor settles behind Ivo. The route ahead is lit by the pale inland exit. The environment is moving normally for the first time.", "action": "Run along the established stone path, jump a 1.5 m break, crouch beneath a settling beam, slide down a short dry slope and cross a second 1.6 m gap. No new inputs, impossible jumps, swimming or restored magical power. The action core lasts approximately 45–70 seconds; approach, recovery and observation account for the remaining target time.", "threat": "Crush volumes follow visible colliders and have anticipatory dust and creak. A fall retries at an internal safe shelf, not before Anja’s goodbye. The water is not a faster-than-player arbitrary death wall.", "exit": "Ivo reaches the dead exit terminal. The brace contact gives a soft powerless mechanical click, without a mocking failure animation.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-05 at the intermediate shelf; CP-C08-06 at the exit gate.", "assets": "KIT-ESCAPE-SETTLE; VFX-DUST-SHEAR; ANIM-SLIDE; AUD-ESCAPE; SYS-DEAD-NETWORK", "test": "The entire escape works without sound and in timing-assist mode. Repeat failures do not desensitize the player by replaying the mother’s death.", "campaign_start_min": 216, "campaign_end_min": 220}
{"id": "C08-S05", "chapter": 8, "title": "A person holds the gate", "minutes": 3, "kind": "Payoff / voluntary support", "space": "22 m exit gate and first inland steps", "entry": "The terminal is dead. On the far side, Orren recognizes Ivo and takes the gate’s ordinary handle. His bent shoe and missing button make the callback unmistakable.", "action": "Approach and Interact once with the powerless terminal if desired. Orren sees Ivo independently of that optional action and manually lifts the gate. Walk beneath. He holds it only long enough to pass, then releases and follows. The geometry is a lightweight balanced gate, not an implausibly heavy load for a frail survivor.", "threat": "No betrayal or final capture. The gate closes safely behind them. The difference between coerced permanent support and temporary voluntary help is the point.", "exit": "Ivo joins people rather than machinery. The game does not state the theme in dialogue.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-07 beyond gate. Orren’s position and gate state restore together.", "assets": "CHR-ORREN; PUZ-EXIT-GATE; ANIM-ORREN-GATE; AUD-ORDINARY-HINGE", "test": "The player cannot strand Orren or be crushed by stopping beneath the gate. Gate assistance waits on a clear occupancy sensor.", "campaign_start_min": 220, "campaign_end_min": 223}
{"id": "C08-S06", "chapter": 8, "title": "Open hand", "minutes": 2, "kind": "Playable epilogue / ending", "space": "34 m railway embankment; distant town silhouette", "entry": "Survivors climb inland under a clearing gray sky. Their footsteps overlap without synchronization. The town settles in the far background; there is no giant explosion.", "action": "Walk the final embankment. Ivo’s hand remains curled. A survivor offers an open hand as he comes near; Ivo gradually uncurls his fingers and accepts it. This uses a short paired alignment, then the player controls several final steps with the group. Fade after a natural composition threshold, not while the player is attempting another puzzle.", "threat": "No threat. A little ambient wind and ordinary shoes replace the held mechanical rhythm. Avoid a triumphant orchestral resolution.", "exit": "Canonical ending. Credits begin outside the 225-minute campaign target. Continue loads the completed epilogue/checkpoint menu without suggesting an undiscovered true ending.", "checkpoint": "CP-C08-08 marks completion before credits. Returning to the campaign does not replay an incomplete final-release state.", "assets": "ANIM-OPEN-HAND; ANIM-PAIRED-WALK; ENV-EMBANKMENT; AUD-UNSYNCED-STEPS; UI-CREDITS", "test": "Completion writes atomically. Test credits skip, quit during fade, restart after completion and selection of earlier unlocked checkpoints.", "campaign_start_min": 223, "campaign_end_min": 225}